Spark contains 'spark core' which serves as computational engine.
Spark core takes care of scheduling, distributing and monitoring applications.
Tight integration across all spark components. When spark core adds optimization, SQL and machine learning libraries automatically speed up as well
Every time when a new component is added to the spark stack, every organization in the spark is able to try the new component.
Ability to build applications seamlessly that combine different processing models.
Spark is faster than hadoop as it extends MapReduce alogorithm which runs on inbuilt memory computations rather than processing from the disk.
Spark core - includes components for task scheduling, memory management, fault recovery, interacting with storage systems like hdfs.
RDD - immutable distributed collection of objects. Each rdd is split into multiple partitions which may be computed on different nodes on the cluster.
Spark SQL - Spark's package for working with structured data. Allows querying data via SQL.
Spark streaming - Spark's component that enables processing of live streams of data, eg server logs, webservice published by kafka
Mlib - Machine learning library
Graphx - Library for manipulating graphs and performing graph- parallel computations.
Spark does not need hadoop. It simply has support for storage systems implementing the hadoop API's.
SparkContext - Its an object which represents the connection to a computing cluster. Driver program(spark-shell) access spark through SparkContext.
RDD creation: Can be done by loading an external dataset or distributing a collection of objects to their driver program.
Operations: Transformations - construct a new RDD from previous one, Actions - compute a result based on RDD and return to driver program or to external storage
Lazy evaluation: Spark computes only when it sees the RDD in action
Persist; RDD will be able to persist data once an action is applied in memory/disk. This enables multiple actions in RDD and resuse the RDD
Examples of transformation: map, filter, flatMap
Examples of actions: count, first
Lineage graph: Spark keeps track the set of dependencies between different RDD's .It is used to compute each RDD on demand and to recover any lost data
Collect/Take: Collect returns the entire RDD whereas take returns only a specified number. The entire action should fit in 1 machine,so collect should not be used for large datasets
Map: Applies to each and every element in RDD and result being a new value of each element in same RDD
Filter: Takes in a function and returns RDD that has only elements that pass the filter function, but output datatype doesnt have to be same as that of input
Flatmap: Each element in RDD may produce more than 1 output element
Union: Does not contain unique values might contain duplicate as well
Subract: Returns an RDD in first RDD which is not in second
Distinct: Operation is expensive because it needs shuffling of entire dataset. Intersection is more worst as it needs shuffling across the network.
Cartesaen: Returns RDD with cartesian product ie 3 x 3 returns 9 values
Reduce: Takes a function that operates on 2 elements of the type in RDD and returns a new element of same type
Fold: Same as that of reduce but takes 0 value
Agregate: ??
Take: Takes the number of elements. Might not return the elements in same order
TakeSample: The result of take sample would be nondeterministic
Why persistence needed: Everytime action is call, spark will recompute the RDD and its dependencies as spark works on lazy evaulation. Persist data to avoid it.
Persistence storage: Default persistence will the objects in heap as unserialized objects . If we write in disk it will be serialized.
Persistence levels: MEMEORY_ONLY - More space, less CPU time/MEMORY_ONLY_SER - Less space, High cpu time/ MEMORY_AND_DISK - More space, Medium CPU time, spills to disc if too much memory/ MEMORY_AND_DISK_SER - Less space used, More CPU time/DISK_ONLY - Less space, High CPU time
Difference between cache/persist: ???

Purpose of key/value pair RDD: Eg: counting up reviews for each product, grouping together data with same key, grouping together different RDD's
Tuples: ??


